So what do you think?
What are the steps of love?
There are three
step one love of God
step two love of
neighbor and step three love of self now of course
We're not talking about the selfish self-centered attitude that people have today
We all need a measure of self-worth
Self-respect if we're to take a picture of these steps they would look something like
this
Make sense that the highest step and the first love of God and
The lowest and the third step love of self because according to the love of the Christ
We ought to love our neighbor more than self because we ought to be willing to die for a neighbor
For the sake of this talk will focus on step three
reason being
though the lowest
for some
It may be the hardest to climb
Because of lack of self-esteem
The question to use this
How can we help others
build or boost their self-esteem? What do you think?
By imitating Christ what did he do? He gave love to others in three ways by being encouraging
by
caring and by trusting
One example of Jesus being encouraging is found at Luke chapter 10
So please follow with me look chapter 10 and there as we glance down to verse 27
We have a man verse in the law and there he clearly identified the three steps according to the law of
Moses
the mosaic love but note the encouragement Jesus gave him in verse 28
Verse 28 Luke 10 28
Jesus he said to him
You answered correctly
Keep doing this or keep giving love keep showing love and you will get life
What's the lesson for us?
We want to be quick
To give yes commendation
But also motivation
One watchtower said this is said watchtower said at this point in the wasteful life
Our brothers, they don't need critics. There's enough critics in the world
But they need friends to help them reach the finish line at Luke chapter 18
We have an example of Jesus being
caring showing tender loving care so look 18 and the context looks at look 18
Well, it's close to spring 33 Jesus is on his way is on a mission going to Jerusalem to observe his last Passover and
They're in verse 35 look 18. I'm sure you remember that the context look 18 is near Jericho and Jericho to Jerusalem is a day's journey
And there look 18 35 near Jericho does a blind man
Sitting beside the road begging
What did Jesus do for this man?
Please scroll down to verse 40
Verse 40 look 18 verse 40
Jesus cared enough to stop is on a mission, but he
stopped
Verse 41
He cared enough to show personal interest. You know this is a question. Just ask the man. What do you want me to do for you?
And you we can try to picture imagine the tone of voice of Jesus. What do you want me to do for you?
Let's think about this love it. Is that possible? Jesus could see the man was blind
Probably so why the question probably is to take in consideration his feelings
What do you need? What do you want and interestingly in verse 39
Verse 39 the crowd was trying to keep this man quiet
But now in verse 41
Jesus speak to me
What do you want? What do you mean? How can I help you?
personal interest and
To drive home the lesson of this account. Here's a verified experience a
Brother took his nephew 13 year old to visit Bethel and at the time the nephew was going through family turmoil to the point that
It caused him to lack motivation
So as it ring Bethel a Bethel light
Stop and take a few minutes to show personal interest
the result
At the very next assembly the 13 year old got baptized
Two years later at 15 he started regular pioneer
At 17 was appointed the mr.al servant
Now as 19 you put in his application for Bethel
All of this because someone
stopped and
personal interest
Can you think of an example Jesus shunned trust to others?
Well, let's go to look this time look
30 not 32 22 look 22 and
As we look at verse 34 look 22 verse 34
It's when Jesus we mind it or we for war and not we mind it for Warren Peter
That he would
Deny him three times now. Let's pause there at that moment when Peter denied his master three times
What do you think was his level of self worth?
Yeah, at an all-time low would have been so easy for Peter to just give up never get back up
But what helped him to climb back on to step three
Probably what Jesus told him in the verse 32
Look at the latter part of verse thirty thirty two will focus on four words. You notice
once you have returned
And probably with these words may I get bringing in Peter's ears as he was down and out
Slowly getting back up once you have returned because Jesus is expressing what fear?
Expressing confidence
Yes, you will fall, but you will get back to step three, but not only that
Hey, don't forget step two because you notice the latter part of verse thirty thirty two
once you have returned what's a mission?
strengthen and
The Greek word little mean make firm your brothers
love
Is eager to believe the best in others?
It's trusting so what could be the result?
As we help others to boost their self-esteem. Well, let's go back to our image
What could be the result? Well as you climb up to step three you agree?
It makes it a little bit easier to go on to step two love of others
or love of neighbor
Which is a prerequisite for love of God step one. What did a possible John said?
What did he say? Well, we cannot say we love God if we don't love our
Our neighbor
Having attended Gilead so you heard the fine talk about it gently. What is expected of you?
To strengthen and stabilize
The organization
It has been said this can be done one publisher at a time
And that reminds me about ten years ago actually ten years ago
My wife and I were transferred from Canada to Congo
And I'll never forget what a friend told me said you know what the friends in Congo. They don't need another messiah
Trust me. They don't all they need
Is love
So
Keep on loving
As Jesus taught us by being encouraging
By caring
By trusting
And the friends
Will give you love back in return make your hover help you to do just that. Yes, we love you